# प्रत्यति(Believe)

## App Summary

Our app aims at adding another feature to the current navigation system used by people in day-to-
day life. The feature, as we call it is **safe-navigation**. It allows you to not only find the shortest
route from origin to destination but also the safest- based on the trends in crimes recorded along
all possible routes over a certain period of time. For this, we plan to create clusters based upon
latitudes and longitudes of recorded crimes. We will assign these clusters a **danger index** based
upon the types, density and date of these recorded crimes. Then we will use these clusters to
calculate a heuristic function for an AI-algorithm to traverse each possible step of all possible
routes and calculate a final **safety-index** of each route. These **safety-indices** will be assigned to
the routes on-demand and hence will change with the time at which a user plans to use the app,
as a route might be comparatively less safe at certain times than others. We also plan to provide
the user with a visual interface for seeing the above-mentioned **crime-clusters** and heat maps
of various categories of crime.

To accomplish this task, our main hinderance was the absence of a reliable source of data on
crimes committed in our country. Very few, if any, recorded FIRs are ever made public. Also, due
of lack of transparency in the way crime is reported to the police, these FIRs are easy to
manipulate and hence any public records of these generated by the current system is lacking in
reliability. Thus to solve this problem, we plan to create a **blockchain** architecture of recording
these FIRs so that a public ledger of every FIR recorded is present on a server at every police
station which is a part of our blockchain network. This will ensure that no individual-be it a person
with authority or a common man-can manipulate this information. Using this information we plan
on generating a reliable database that can be used by our cluster of AI-models to give a new
dimension to current standards of navigation.

If successfully implemented, we can easily migrate the current records of FIRs to our blockchain
for preserving their authenticity while providing a method to record all the new FIRs to the
blockchain network directly. This architecture will also be able to replace our current system of
filing online FIRs which is lacking any sorts of authentication- with a more secure, reliable and
trustworthy method.
